# Program Purposes
There is a few programs in here built for collecting data, data processing, and motor control. Here is a list of the programs and what their purposes are:
1. EMG_to_SERVO: Using moving averages and thresholding to move the servo motor based on an EMG sensor input. Components include a servo motor, EMG sensor, Arduino, external power supply to provide power to the motor.
2. June4_Testing_Procedure: Data collecting program that uses a series of lights to indicate muscle flexion timing. The program starts with a blinking red light indicating that the Arduino is ready for collecting data. Press the button to begin and follow the lighting instructions. Red light indicates rest, yellow lights indicate a slow increase in muscle activation, and a green light for maximum flexion. The order of instructions set at the moment is: 5 seconds of rest, 5 seconds of increase in muscle activation, 5 seconds of full muscle activation, 5 seconds of relaxing, followed by a full repeat. This is a 35 second data collecting process that is recorded with the Arduino Serial Monitor. Components include 1 red led, 5 yellow leds, 1 green led, a button, an Arduino, and an EMG sensor.
3. LCD_EMG: This is a more up-to-date data collecting program developed. It makes use of an LCD screen to print the instructions for Reid to follow. The process requires Reid to rest for 5 seconds, slowly flex over 5 seconds, flex hard for 5 seconds, rest for 5 seconds, slowly flex for 5 seconds, and finally flex hard for 5 seconds totalling to a data collecting process of 30 seconds. Data collecting is done through the Arduino Serial Monitor. Components include an Arduino, a 16*2 LCD screen, and an EMG sensor.
4. ReadAnalog: A very simple live sensor read from the EMG sensor to the Arduino Serial Monitor. Components include EMG sensor and Arduino.
5. SD_Sample: Another simple live sensor read from the EMG sensor but it is instead saved onto a microSD card. Components include Arduino, EMG sensor, SD card reader for an Arduino, and a microSD card.
6. ServoTest: A basic servo functionality code for troubleshooting the servo motor or for just understanding the basics of how the servo motor moves. Components include an Arduino, servo motor, and an external power supply to power the motor.
7. Signal_Testing1 (filtering.m): Includes a MATLAB file for analyzing Reid's collected data. This file is constantly changing as we are always trying different methods to get the clearest signal possible. Methods include moving averages, variances, lowpass filters, highpass filters, bandpass filters, and different combinations of these.